Mixxx Stanton SCS.3d guide
==========================

Work in progress. Improvements and suggestions to the guide and the mapping itself are welcome.


General controls
----------------
Unless otherwise noted, the following controls have the same function in all modes.

S1: Controls gain of currently active deck.
S2: Changes rate or pitch depending on current mode, see VINYL-mode for discussion.

By touching one of the six mode buttons, you switch to that mode. Some modes have alternate overlays, you can switch to those by touching the mode again. The first overlay is red, the second blue, the third is purple.

By holding a mode button, a mode can be enabled temporarily until that mode button is released again. Some modes also enable an alternate hold-overlay.

The currently active deck/channel is shown by lighting one of B11 through B14 red.
See DECK mode on how to control this.

A light spinning around the circle shows the track is playing. When the track
nears its end (at -30 seconds), a blinking light will detach and run slower.
When the spinning light reaches the blinking light, the track ends.

Pressing PLAY will start or pause the track. When a track is ready to play the button blinks. Pressing CUE will jump to the cue point or set it, depending on your settings and whether the track is playing. Pressing SYNC will sync the active deck to another deck. Holding SYNC for more than one second will enable SYNC lock. Pressing TAP repeatedly will adjust track BPM.


FX mode
-------

FX mode allows you to control effects. Button B11 through B14 allow you to select the currently controlled chain. (Specifically, the first effect of each chain is controlled.) The currently active effect is shown in red. The buttons turn blue when the active deck is assigned to this effect chain. If the active effect chain is assigned to the active deck, the button will appear purple.

Slider S2 controls the wet/dry mix of the current effect. Sliders S3, S4, and S5 control the first three effect knobs on the effect unit.

By holding FX, you can toggle assignement of the current deck to effect chains with buttons B11 through B14. The effects that have the current deck assigned are shown in blue. While FX is held, the pitch mode slider can be used to load the next (top half of the slider) or previous (bottom half) effect.

When FX is held, the button for the active deck is shown in red. So if you want to assign the active effect to the active deck, press the button that is red. If the button is purple, pressing it would mean unassign the active effect from the active deck.



EQ mode
-------

In EQ mode, the central sliders S3, S4, S5 control low/mid/high filters. Holding
EQ will reset the control to center when the corresponding slider is touched.




LOOP mode
---------

By touching the circle you activate a loop over a certain number of beats.
Touching on the right side will activate a beat-loop over 1, 2, 4, 8 etc beats, starting from the top. On the left side you get fractions 1/2, 1/4, 1/8 etc loops starting from the top. To leave the loop, touch center.

By touching the LOOP mode button again, the 'rolling' overlay comes on and the LOOP button turns blue. In rolling mode, the loop will be released as soon as you take your finger off the circle and the track will resume where it would have been without looping.


TRIG mode
---------

You can set hotcues and jump to hotcues in this mode. The circle is split into
five fields (1: top left, 2: bottom left, 3: top right, 4: bottom right, 5: center)
where touching the area will either set the hotcue if it was unset, or trigger the
hotcue if it was set. When a hotcue is set, the blue lights next to it will light.

To clear a hotcue, hold TRIG and touch the corresponding field.

The first TRIG overlay (red light) controls hotcues 1 to 5, touching TRIG will
switch to overlays 2 and three controlling hotcues 6 to 10 (blue light) and
11 to 15 (purple light).


VINYL mode
----------

The circle C1 functions as a jog-wheel, slide clockwise to speed-up the track.
The center slider S4 can be used to raise and lower speed by holding it above or below center, respectively.

B11 jumps back one beat, B12 jumps forward. B13 and B14 control fast-reverse,
fast-forward.

While VINYL is held, B11 through B14 set the pitch slider mode, the
currently active mode lights blue:
B11 Absolute rate: The pitch slider directly sets the rate in a wide range
B12 Discrete Pitch: Change pitch up or down by touching upper or lower part of slider
B13 Rate: Change the right up or down by holding the slider off-center.
          The further from the center you hold the slider, the faster the rate changes.
B14 Relative pitch: slide to change pitch up or down

When VINYL is held, the SYNC button adjusts the beatgrid. When the track is not playing, the beatgrid is moved to the current track position. When the track is playing, the beatgrid is aligned with the other track's beatgrid.

A second overlay to VINYL (blue) enables scratching on the pad. Both the circle and the center slider (S4) can be used to scratch.

DECK mode
---------

This mode is used to load tracks. When the current deck is not playing,
an arrow pattern indicates that the currently selected track can be loaded into
the deck by pressing the central field S4. Sliding on the circle C1 will scroll through the library.

B11 and B13 allow you to switch up and down between the library categories, while
B12, B14 allow stepping thorugh the library list one-by-one (the slider allows only coarse control).

When holding DECK, you can switch channels.
B11: deck 1
B12: deck 2
B13: deck 3
B14: deck 4
The corresponding button turns red. The active deck is shown on the buttons in all modes except FX.

The controller keeps its mode per deck. So when changing deck, the mode will switch to the mode previously used on that deck.

Note that the active deck is synched with the SCS.3m, so when switching between
decks 1 and 3, or 2 and 4 the other device changes as well.

